Hello, everyone.
Let's call a very beautiful problem from we will kick start.
And this was passed in 2000 and down day.
It started 2020 and.
Let's see the provenance gold plate.
And these points are actually for the first problem, and this is for the second constraint.
Eight.
So we will see that we have two different problems with two different tests.
So let's see the problem.
It's a very, very nice, beautiful, deep problem.
So Dr. Patel has end state plates.
Each step contains.
Keep it right.
So we have laminated like this.
Basically we have.
Let's see.
And actually it and there are there are some plates which are let's represent plates by this.
And this is of killing eight.
So.
And stack plates and all those plates are kept on each other.
And those are.
Giblet.
So we can also show them this way that plates are stacked on each other.
But I prefer this because you'll see though, the plate.
Yeah.
So each plate has a positive beauty value and describing how beautiful it looks.
So there's a value associated with the edge of the plate.
Dr. Patel would like to take exactly plates.
This is important.
Exactly.
We plates.
So we have to take exactly plates.
Who use for dinner tonight.
If he would like to take a blade in the stack, he must also take all the plates above it in the stack
as well.
So this is the main condition of the problem.
For example, let's talk about this stack.
So stack is this way back.
This is one stack.
This is and this deck is another stack in the center stack.
All these plates have some beauty value associated with them.
So let's see if Dr. Patel takes two plates from the first deck so he can not just pick the second plate
and find the maximum value.
But he has to take two plates from it if he has if he wants to take the second place plate.
Also, if he wants to take three plates from this deck, then he has to pick up top three plates.
Only if he.
Except for plates on the first leg.
Then basically I have your industry date.
If you want some number of plates, he'll just pick up those number of plates from the top of this state
plate.
So help Dr. Patel big p plates that would maximise the total time of the year devalues.
So a very beautiful problem with some beauty values in it.
And there are other things which are energy in the low end and can be as and in case nothing.
But it's just we have been given a grid and that as some value this year did with it.
So let's let's move on to the desk visit if we can see that these hundred fine is 30 and we will be
less than and integrate.
What is the meaning of this that we will be less than and in look this only means one thing that.
The beauty value will exist, right?
Because we can always select and into tablets for you.
What if P is greater than an indicator and indicates the number of total plates?
If P is greater than that, it will be minus one, but we can easily see that we use less than equal
when in the case of the foot, doing so will always exist.
Okay, so this is the sample input.
Let's see the input.
So we have to.
Then we have two, four, five.
Two for five.
And then we have these plates which are then 1030.
These are the values.
So basically we have two sticks with sticks and this is key, which is the number of plates in one stick
eight.
And the next steak is 80, 50, then 50.
Well.
So we have these statistics and what we want to find out.
We want to find out what is the best cost of picking five bleeds.
So how can we apply, like, just, you know, try something in this?
How can we pick up five bullets?
The first option is to pick up zero plate from the first one and pick up.
I played some the second one.
As we can see, it's not possible because the second does not have by plate.
The second option is pick up one plate from the first and all plate from the second aid.
So in this case, what would be the value if I pick one from the first and fourth?
From the second, I can easily see it will be ten plus what is there, but some 80 plus hundred plus
ten is.
198 and the ten in the first one will be.
So it will be ten plus 198 200.
The second can be picked due from the first row.
From the second row three from the first row, two from the second row or from the first row and one
from the fifth through or five from the first row and zero from the second row.
So basically this was not possible because we don't have five.
And all out of all these, for the best answer, that will get us to 58.
I'll get to 50.
I think we'll get it by this day from the first and two.
From the second.
Right.
So here we can see it is 120 and this is 138.
So we are getting to 58.
But this was very easily this can be easily done if the row values to what, eight or whatever and is
three, then will we sit and partition them like zero from first one from this like zero zero and B
or we can see one and zero B minus one eight.
I mean, there are multiple, then there will be many ways to partition this rate.
So how many whether they are to partition P in the sum of some numbers, we have already seen this.
We have already seen this example and we have all this problem, right?
But that can be the brute force solution that will work, if anything equal to three.
You can try out all the particular combinations and permutations.
Eight.
Now watch this again.
Part of the second part of it is a dynamic programming solution for how to apply dynamic programming
in this.
So we always know we'll have a state and then still state will represent again.
We have the second.
Yeah.
So in this case, we have vanity.
I don't know.
You can see for yourself how we are getting when it I think we are getting it from.
So we have to pick up three plates ready to this 80 plus eighties.
160 and this one will give me 188.
So that's the answer for this second case.
Let let me let's let us think how to apply dynamic programming in this.
Eight What we do is firstly we have a prefix that let's let, let's keep a prefix added because if I
am picking up some number of plates in them, then I can only pick up some.
But it picks up the pace.
So it will be ten, 21, 20 and 150.
So this is pretty quick.
Some of the faster this will be, 80 plus 50 is one.
30 plus ten is one.
40 plus 50 is.
What is plus 5190.
So sometimes it happens.
So here you can see that finally.
So basically what we want is finally we can see the sum is nothing but 120 plus one third rate.
Correct.
So let's define a deep state here.
So this is an introduction of the partition problems.
All the partition problems will be solving it in this way where we have to partition here we are partitioning
to drain to some number of.
Partitions.
Because this is a partition.
This is a partition.
And in future, we'll also see some one D areas which can be divided into some partitions.
And there are very beautiful problems from those.
So we'll see all of them one by one.
And this is a very interesting problems will be solved today.
So here you can see this is a positive of right now let's define a DP State, let's say DP.
Okay.
Let's say DP are you gonna do this?
Means what is the.
Okay, what is the answer?
So here the answer will be nothing but the maximum total sum of your value.
Let me define it over here.
EPA will be nothing but the maximum total sum of beauty value.
Maximum total sum of beauty value.
Then Dr. Patel can pick if.
Or let's say, from.
I rose.
Eight.
And.
Considering.
Total.
Giblets.
The word is maximum mobility value from the first dose.
If I consider total giblets.
So what will be the final answer that Dr. Patel wants?
Dr. Patel wants deep end coma.
Be ready because this is what is the total number of rows and this is what is the total number of plates?
Correct.
Now, let's see.
I hope you understood this deep eight.
And believe me or not, this is the state that I picked up from the problem itself.
Right.
So I or what I always do is I make whatever the problem is asking, I just make it I state aid.
But if I'm picking up eight rows and considering the first 8 hours and considering the total duplicates,
then what's my answer?
I mean, let's try to fill the deep values and then you'll realize it yourself.
It will start with the base case to make, to understand the problem deeper, to get familiar with it.
But let's let's call it one.
One.
Okay, so there can be a case when I'm picking up zero bullets, right?
So let me write that case.
Also, zero plates, one plate to plate.
Really appropriate.
So basically I'm just making this.
Able with an grasp of and grasp rates of what is be here is five.
So I have to make one more partition which is five eight and this is one comma.
Do.
Tell me, what if I pick up zero plates on the first of what will be my answer if I'm picking up?
Right now we're just talking about first ideas, which is the first only aid.
So if I'm picking up zero plates, that means down to this very simple relative zero or then picking
up the first plate.
Let me right.
The index is here also.
So.
One, two, three, four.
And.
One two, eight.
If I'm picking up the phone, if I have to pick up one player from the first row, then you have to
pick up duplicates from the first row.
That means this value 20 because I cannot pick up any other player, I have to pick up the first two
players.
As we can see in the first row in the fourth player, we have 150 now.
Can we pick up the fifth player from the first row?
Not yet.
I'll just market you very well.
Let's come back over here.
So indeed for the first two rows now we are talking about we are considering for the first two rows,
for the first three roads, what is the best way to pick up the zero played zero bridge total rate.
So it will be zero.
The maximum value when picking up zero plates from the first road is zero.
What if now, now, now is a good now we're moving to a good solution that let's fill this place, which
is to command one, which means from the first few rows.
What if you select only one plate?
Right.
They're not telling me these are the current rule.
If I talk about for the current rule, the second rule, what options do I have to pick up?
Total number of one plate from all the rows two for the current row.
We know that the total number of options that we have is that I'll pick zero plates from the first round,
pick one plate from the above row, or I can pick up one plate from the first row, but one plate from
the current row and zero plates from the questions.
But if that means.
In short, what I'm trying to say is, what if I pick up?
Let's call it.
Okay.
I'll stick and stick and stick an X.
Let's call it a.
What if I pick x number of plates from the current group?
Right.
Ah, okay.
Let's just talk about this example only, which is to come on day, I want a big advantage.
So I'll pick up either one blade, zero blade from the current row, or I can pick up one blade from
the current.
But it.
So if I'm picking up zero plate from the current road, that means I have to pick up one.
-0 is one bit from the previous routes where the towns are kept before any.
So here we can see the transit escaped over here that from the previous routes.
Tell me, what is the best cost of picking one route, one bullet resistant, and what is the best cost
of picking zero blade from the current is zero.
So what is vendor zero will get then?
Now the second part of the problem is that what if I'm picking up one blade from the current row and
then I'm asking one minus?
One will be zero at eight.
I have to pick up zero plates from the previous rows.
So basically I have two options that I'll pick up this.
Which is giving me ten and this which is giving me the cost of making one plate from the current reality
and the cost of picking zero plate from the previous process.
Zero zero is 80.
So what is the mix of them?
It is 80.
Rick.
Let's move one step ahead and then the things will become very clear.
Let's let Phil do coma.
What is two words to Gamma?
Two means.
It means from the first two.
Pick up two.
One of the best cos eight.
So the first thing is very simple.
Either pick up zero plates from the current row and pick up two plates from the.
Bust previous rules.
Rachel, this is previous rules.
Where is the transit hub?
The best answer to pick up to bridge on the previous roads.
It is kept over here with is 28.
So this will be zero plus 20 and it is 28.
The second part is other pick up one player from the current room because see, it's very simple to
just try out my possible options for the current row.
And then as for the other options for the previous rows.
The second option that I have is pick up one player from the current group rate.
And what is the cost of picking a bundle from the current?
It is 80.
And pick up one plate from the above room, which is above Bruce Ray which is the best answer this and
they tell it.
Dennis 93rd option is at pick up two plates from the current row and pick up zero plates from the previous
throws.
This picking up to plate from the current draw will be will give me a cost of 138 and what is the best
answer if I pick up zero based on the above rows, it's zero eight and this gives me 130.
So what is the maximum on these three options that I have?
So what up for total plates of two?
I cannot write the big three plates.
Right.
I just have to pick up admixture plate one.
So the maximum limit is 130.
We just plated 130.
So what does 130 means from the first two rows?
From the first two rows, what is the best?
Maximum beauty validity can get by picking up Taurus who believes it is 130?
And how are we getting this?
By picking up these to let it be in 50.
I hope you're getting the whole point.
You think?
Well, let's try the and then we'll generalize it later and just trying to fill the next.
Column.
So the next columnist two or three so far Tacoma commodity I'll pick up either one either zero leads
from the current row, three from the previous odd one plus two from the previous order.
It's not about the previous two, it is about the previous rows.
So this is Tacoma one and the third one is three.
Comma zero, the 403.
It is zero plus the best chance of opening three lanes on the previous route is 120.
This is 120.
This one is of 80 plus.
20, which is hundred.
This is 130 plus picking up one will be ten.
It is 140.
Okay.
And this one is.
The will be 140 and picking up zero from the previous roses zero.
So this is also 140.
So what are the best one, everyone?
The best one here.
I can see if I want to pick up three plates from the above.
Two rows is 148.
Well, let me read one, but let's check.
How are we getting 140?
It can be a people 50 plus ten.
30 plus 50 plus ten.
I got it.
I.
Let's quickly build one comma for.
Well, I know it's a very short example, but it's taking time.
Let's just fill up on God.
CUOMO 42, very simple zero from the current forum.
The previous this is 151 from the current, three from previous.
This is 80 plus 80 plus 1/20 200.
So.
And.
The next one can be two from the current and two from the previous, two from Greenville.
Will you give me 130 and you from previous will give me.
128.
So it will be only 150.
Rick.
So it is this 30 plus destroying thing.
And finally, the last one will be not the last three plus one and the last one before +08.
The formula zero is very simple.
Let me just I did it is 198 but what is three +13 from the current which is 140 and one from previous
with just ten.
It will also give me 150 towards the best.
It is 200.
They finally literally lost value.
And.
This is 208.
Now let's fill this, which is the p to coma.
I cannot fill zero comma five.
I can I cannot fill zero.
But I can fill the one coma for and it's full.
Zero, comma zero plus five is not possible.
I cannot pick up five because it will be zero.
The second one is one comma.
Or to picking up one from this list it and picking up for it.
The best answer is 150 to 150 as it is.
Those are.
Similarly to go my three will give me picking up two is 130 and picking up three from the previous or
this 120.
So basically it is better.
The best from is 258.
I hope you can see how is the best answer to 50 coming up over here.
But what we are doing is nothing.
Let me just generalize it now.
What?
Any idea?
DPA comedy.
What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to let's say I'm trying to run X, not some Asian.
It will be max it's a let's take max of the first option is either pick up one to pick up zero from
the current one or two or three and so until keep.
Eight.
So what I'll do is I'll run in X, let's see, x goes from zero and x go still.
They?
And what we'll do is we'll simply say that it is nothing, but it is equals to a maximum of.
Big eggs from the current row.
So what is what is the picking eggs from the current draw?
It is nothing but prefix of the current row which is i.e..
Farmer X This is the perfect template.
I'm just writing it as prefix i x which is prefix fix of x plates of the grain do less dpi i.e. minus
one.
And D minus X, but that means picking J minus X from the previous rules.
As simple as that Reid and I it for all sides in this I will go from one to win and they will go from
zero to be eight.
So in the next part, we'll just call it out.
I hope you understood how the transitions in this are being made.
Eight and yeah.
Thank you.